=encoding utf8
=pod

=head1 NAME

e4rat-lite-collect - Generate a list of relevant files by monitoring applications

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<e4rat-lite-collect>  B<[> option(s) B<]>  B<[> application name(s) B<]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

e4rat-lite-collect listens to the Linux audit socket to monitor filesystem activities and generates a list of relevant files retaining their access order. 
Temporary files and/or files opened (running) like log-files, are excluded automatically.

You can either monitor applications or the entire operating system. If an I<application name> is supplied, the processes to monitor are selected according to their process name, which is usually the name of the running executable and shown by the ps(1) command. Paths are removed from the process names. The application you specify are just monitored and does not get executed. see I<--execute>.
In addition, the collector follows child processes, which allows to monitor shell scripts correctly.

To stop scanning process press CTRL-C or run `e4rat-lite-collect -k'. Unless otherwise stated, the generated file list is written to '/var/lib/e4rat-lite/startup.log' or the file specified in the configuration.

=head1 OPTIONS

Some options require a path to a file, directory or device. Feel free to use relative paths and or paths containing wildcard characters like '*' or '?'.

=over

=item -V --version

show version information and exit.

=item -h --help

display usage message and exit.

=item -v --verbose

increment verbosity level.

=item -q --quiet

set verbose level to 0. This means that no messages will be displayed.

=item -l --loglevel <number>

set loglevel mask to <number>. All log messages are sent either to the Kernel log (see dmesg(1)) or to syslog(3).

=item -k --stop

kill already running e4rat-lite-collect process.

=item -x --execute <command>

collect while executing command. e4rat-lite-collect stops running after <command> terminates. Be aware that <command> gets executed with root privileges if no username is specified. See l<--user>.

=item -u --user <username>

specify username the command gets executed. See l<--execute>.

=item -o --output [file]

set the output file in which the generated file list is written to. If no path is specified, the list is written to stdout.

=item -d --device         <dev>

=item -D --exclude-device <dev>

limit monitoring to a special device. <dev> is a path to device normally in /dev.
[example: /dev/sda1]

=item -p --path         <path>

=item -P --exclude-path <path>

limit monitoring to a special path.
[example: '*/bin/*']

=item -L --exclude-list <file>

The <file> contains a list of files, which e4rat-lite-collect should exclude.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Scan Thunderbird and a locally running Imap daemon

=head4 Run collector as root:

    ~# sudo e4rat-lite-collect thunderbird imapd

=head4 Once collector is running execute thunderbird as a normal user:

    ~# thunderbird

=head4 Alternatively combine it to one call

    ~# sudo e4rat-lite-collect thunderbird imapd --execute 'thunderbird' --user `whoami`

=head2 Scan boot process:

Run e4rat-lite-collect as early as possible to scan the whole startup process. It is recommended to run e4rat-lite-collect as init process. To do so, add the following lines to the Kernel parameters in grub(8) or lilo(8).
init=/usr/bin/e4rat-lite-collect

=head1 FILES

F</etc/e4rat-lite.conf>
     E4rat-lite configuration file.

=head1 AUTHOR

e4rat has been written by Andreas Rid and Gundolf Kiefer.
e4rat-lite writen by Lara Maia.

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to Lara Maia <lara@craft.net.br>

=head1 SEE ALSO

e4rat-lite-realloc(8), e4rat-lite-preload(8), e4rat-lite.conf(8)
