=encoding utf8
=pod

=head1 NAME

/etc/e4rat-lite.conf - configuration file for the e4rat-lite toolset

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<e4rat-lite.conf> is the configuration file all e4rat-lite binaries. It allows to replace default parameters of the tools.

=head1 FILE FORMAT

The file is based on Python's ConfigParser style of .INI files, including RFC 822-style multi-line syntax and name: value entries. For more information see I<http://docs.python.org/library/configparser.html>

An option is declared like this:
option1=value1

Options can either be declared below a section. Derived from its executable suffix name, each binary owns its own section. Values in section Global applies to all binaries.

Example:

[Collect]
; comment
option=value

=head1 OPTIONS

e4rat-lite has a simple logging structure. Each event has a priority bit. The following priorities exist:
    1   errors
    2   warnings
    4   task statistics
    8   information about a single step
   16   debug message

=head2 Global Section (For all binaries)

=over

=item B<verbose>

(not yet implemented on config file)
set verbose bit mask of messages to be displayed. [Default: 7]

=item B<loglevel>

(not yet implemented on config file)
set bit mask of messages send to L<log_target>. [Default: 3]

=item B<log_target>

(not yet implemented on config file)
set target path where log messages should be written to. Default value is /dev/kmsg.
It sends the message to Kernel's log ring buffer. (See also dmesg(1))
Set <log_target> to 'syslog' to send the message to the syslog daemon.

=item B<init_file>

Set an alternative init process instead of /sbin/init

=item B<startup_log_file>

set path to startup log file. [Default: /var/lib/e4ra-litet/startup.log]

=back

=head2 Specific for I<e4rat-lite-collect>

=over

=item B<ext4_only>

Restrict file watches to ext4 filesystem types only. [Default: true]

=item B<exclude_open_files>

exclude files which are already opened (running). [Default: true]

=item B<timeout> (in seconds)

After the expiration of this value, the e4rat-lite-collect automatically quits collecting. Timeout takes only into account when e4rat-lite-collect was executed as init process. [Default: 120]

=back

=head2 Specific for e4rat-lite-realloc

=over

=item B<defrag_mode>

set default rearrangement mode of e4rat-lite-realloc. [Default: auto]
    auto               choose mode automatically
    pa                 use user-space pre-allocate ioctl
    locality-group     create files in locality group
    tld                create files in top level directory

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

e4rat has been written by Andreas Rid and Gundolf Kiefer.
e4rat-lite writen by Lara Maia.

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to Lara Maia <lara@craft.net.br>

=head1 SEE ALSO

e4rat-lite-collect(8), e4rat-lite-realloc(8), e4rat-lite-preload(8)
