=pod

=head1 NAME

/etc/e4rat.conf - configuration file for the e4rat toolset

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<e4rat.conf> is the configuration file all e4rat binaries. It allows to replace default parameters of the tools.

=head1 FILE FORMAT

The file is based on INFO format which is similar to C/C++. For more information see I<http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_45_0/doc/html/boost_propertytree/parsers.html>. 

An option is declared like this:
option1 value1

Options can either be declared globally and/or below a section. Derived from its executable suffix name, each binary owns its own section. Values beyond this section applies to the binary only.


collect
{
    option value

}

=head1 OPTIONS

e4rat has a simple logging structure. Each event has a priority bit. The following priorities exist:
    1   errors
    2   warnings
    4   task statistics
    8   information about a single step
   16   debug message

=over

=item B<verbose>

set verbose bit mask of messages to be displayed. [Default: 7]

=item B<loglevel>

set bit mask of messages send to L<log_target>. [Default: 3]

=item B<log_target>

set target path where log messages should be written to. Default value is /dev/kmsg.
It sends the message to Kernel's log ring buffer. (See also dmesg(1))
Set <log_target> to 'syslog' to send the message to the syslog daemon.

=item B<init>

Set an alternative init process instead of /sbin/init

=item B<startup_log_file>

set path to startup log file. [Default: /var/lib/e4rat/startup.log]

=back

=head2 Specific for I<e4rat-collect>

=over

=item B<timeout>

After the expiration of this value in seconds e4rat-collect automatically quits collecting. Timeout takes only into account when e4rat-collect was executed as init process. [Default: 120]

=item B<ext4_only>

Restrict file watches to ext4 filesystem types only. [Default: true]

=item B<exclude_open_files>

exclude files which are already opened. [Default: true]

=back

=head2 Specific for e4rat-realloc

=over

=item B<defrag_mode>

set default rearrangement mode of e4rat-realloc. [Default: auto]
    auto            choose mode automatically
    prealloc        use user-space pre-allocate ioctl
    locality-group  create files in locality group
    tld             create files in top level directory

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Andreas Rid and Gundolf Kiefer.

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to Andreas Rid <conso at rz.fh-augsburg.de>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

e4rat-collect(8), e4rat-realloc(8), e4rat-preload(8)
